CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing To The CCXT Library

```diff
- This file is a work in progress, guidelines for contributing are being developed right now!
```

## How To Submit An Issue

If you want to submit an issue and you want your issue to be resolved quickly, here's a basic checklist for you:

- Read the [Manual](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual), and especially carefully read the following sections:
  - [Exchange Properties](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#exchange-properties)
  - [Rate Limit](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#rate-limit)
  - [DDoS Protection](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#ddos-protection-by-cloudflare--incapsula)
  - [Authentication](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#authentication)
  - [API Keys Setup](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#api-keys-setup)
- Read the [Troubleshooting](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#troubleshooting) section and follow troubleshooting steps.
- Read the [API docs](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Exchange-Markets) for your exchange.
- Search for similar issues first to avoid duplicates.
- If your issue is unique, along with a basic description of the failure, please, provide the following information:
  - your language version, ccxt library version
  - which exchange it is and which method you're trying to call
  - a full code snippet you're having difficulties with (avoid one-liners)
  - paste the full stacktrace of that snippet in verbose mode as is, unchanged

## How To Contribute Code

### Pending Tasks

Below is a list of functionality we would like to have implemented in the library in the first place. Most of these tasks are already in progress, implemented for some exchanges, but not all of them:

- Unified fetchOrder
- Unified fetchOrders, fetchOpenOrders, fetchClosedOrders
- Unified fetchMyTrades, fetchOrderTrades
- Unified deposit methods
- Unified fees
- Unified deposit and withdrawal transaction history
- Improved proxy support
- WebSocket interfaces:
  - Pub: Methods for trading and private calls where supported
  - Sub: Real-time balance, orderbooks and other properties with each exchange

If you want to contribute by submitting partial implementations be sure to look up examples of how it's done inside the library (where implemented already) and copy the adopted practices.

If your proposal, suggestion or improvement does not relate to the above list of tasks before submitting it make sure it is:
1. really needed by the majority of ccxt users
2. designed to be a general-purpose solution, not hardcoded for your specific needs
3. done in a generalized way compatible with all exchanges (not exchange-specific)
4. portable (available in all supported languages)
5. robust
6. explicit in what it's doing
7. doesn't break anything

The following is a set of rules for contributing to the ccxt library codebase.

### What You Need To Have

- Node.js (version 8 or higher)
- Python 2/3
- PHP 5.3+
- [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/installing.html)

### What You Need To Know

#### Repository Structure

The contents of the repository are structured as follows:

```shell
/                          # root directory aka npm module/package folder for Node.js
/.babelrc                  # babel config used for making the ES5 version of the library
/.eslintrc                 # linter
/.gitattributes            # contains linguist settings for language detection in repo
/.gitignore                # ignore it
/.npmignore                # ignore it npm-style
/.travis.yml               # a YAML config for travis-ci (continuous integration)
/CHANGELOG.md              # says itself
/CONTRIBUTING.md           # this file
/LICENSE.txt               # MIT
/README.md                 # master markdown for GitHub, npmjs.com, npms.io, yarn and others
/build/                    # a folder for the generated files
/ccxt.js                   # entry point for the master JS version of the ccxt library
/ccxt.php                  # entry point for the PHP version of the ccxt library
/js/                       # the JS version of the library
/php/                      # PHP ccxt module/package folder
/php/base/                 # base code for the PHP version of the ccxt library
/python/                   # Python ccxt module/package folder for PyPI
/python/__init__.py        # entry point for the Python version of the ccxt.library
/python/async/__init__.py  # asynchronous version of the ccxt.library for Python 3.5+ asyncio
/python/base/              # base code for the Python version of the ccxt library
/python/MANIFEST.in        # a PyPI-package file listing extra package files (license, configs, etc...)
/python/README.rst         # generated reStructuredText for PyPI
/python/setup.cfg          # wheels config file for the Python package
/python/setup.py           # pip/setuptools script (build/install) for ccxt in Python
/python/tox.ini            # tox config for Python
/countries.js              # a list of ISO 2-letter country codes in JS for testing, not very important
/examples/                 # self-explaining
/examples/js               # ...
/examples/php              # ...
/examples/py               # ...
/export-exchanges.js       # used to create tables of exchanges in the docs during the build
/package.json              # npm package file, also used in setup.py for version single-sourcing
/run-tests.js              # a front-end to run invididual tests of all exchanges in all languages (JS/PHP/Python)
/transpile.js              # the transpilation script
/update-badges.js          # a JS script to update badges in the README and in docs
/vss.js                    # reads single-sourced version from package.json and writes it everywhere
```

#### Multilanguage Support

The ccxt library is available in three different languages (more to come). We encourage developers to design *portable* code, so that a single-language user can read code in other languages and understand it easily. This helps the adoption of the library. The main goal is to provide a generalized, unified, consistent and robust interface to as many existing cryptocurrency exchanges as possible.

At first, all language-specific versions were developed in parallel, but separately from each other. But when it became too hard to maintain and keep the code consistent among all supported languages we decided to switch to what we call a *source/generated* process. There is now a single source version in one language, that is JavaScript. Other language-specific versions are syntactically derived (transpiled, generated) from the source version. But it doesn't mean that you have to be a JS coder to contribute. The portability principle allows Python and PHP devs to effectively participate in developing the source version as well.

The module entry points are:
- `./python/__init__.py` for the Python pip package
- `./python/async/__init__.py` for the Python 3.5+ ccxt.async subpackage
- `./ccxt.js` for the Node.js npm package
- `./build/ccxt.browser.js` for the browser bundle
- `./ccxt.php` for PHP

Generated versions and docs are transpiled from the source `ccxt.js` file and files in `./js/` by the `npm run build` command.

##### Transpiled (generated) files

- All derived exchange classes are transpiled from source JS files. The source files are language-agnostic, easily mapped line-to-line to any other language and written in a cross-language-compatible way. Any coder can read it (by design).
- All base classes are **not** transpiled, those are language-specific.

###### JavaScript

The `ccxt.browser.js` is generated with Babel from source.

###### Python

These files containing derived exchange classes are transpiled from JS into Python:

- `js/[_a-z].js` → `python/ccxt/async/[_a-z].py`
- `python/ccxt/async[_a-z].py` → `python/ccxt/[_a-z].py` (Python 3 asyncio → Python 2 sync transpilation stage)
- `python/test/test_async.py` → `python/test/test.py` (sync test in generated from async test)

These Python base classes and files are not transpiled:

- `python/ccxt/base/*`
- `python/ccxt/async/base/*`

###### PHP

These files containing derived exchange classes are transpiled from JS into PHP:

- `js/[_a-z].js` → `php/[_a-z].php`

These PHP base classes and files are not transpiled:

- `php/base/*`

###### Typescript

- `js/[_a-z].js` → `ccxt.d.ts`

#### Base Class

```UNDER CONSTRUCTION```

#### Derived Exchange Classes

Below are key notes on how to keep the JS code transpileable:

- don't put empty lines inside your methods
- do not use language-specific code syntax sugar, even if you really want to
- unfold all maps and comprehensions to basic for-loops
- every opening bracket like `(` or `{` should have a space before it!
- always use Python-style indentation, it is preserved as is for all languages
- indent with spaces, avoid tabs
- always put a semicolon `;` at the end of each statement, as in PHP/C-style
- all associative keys must be single-quoted strings everywhere, `array['good'], array.bad`
- all local variables should be declared with the `let` keyword
- do everything with base class methods only
- if you need another base method you will have to implement it in all three languages
- try to reduce syntax to basic one-liner expressions
- multiple lines are ok, but you should avoid deep nesting with lots of brackets
- do not use conditional statements that are too complex (heavy if-bracketing)
- do not use heavy ternary conditionals
- put an empty line between each of your methods
- avoid mixed comment styles, use double-slash `//` in JS for line comments
- avoid multi-line comments
- ...

**If you want to add (support for) another exchange or implement a new method for a particular exchange, then the best way to make it a consistent improvement is to learn from example, take a look at how same things are implemented in other exchanges and try to copy the code flow and style.**

The basic JSON-skeleton for a new exchange integration is as follows:

```JSON
{
   "id": "example",
   "name": "Example Exchange",
   "country": [ "US", "EU", "CN", "RU" ],
   "rateLimit": 1000,
   "version": "1",
   "comment": "This comment is optional",
   "urls": {
      "logo": "https://example.com/image.jpg",
      "api": "https://api.example.com/api",
      "www": "https://www.example.com",
      "doc": [
         "https://www.example.com/docs/api",
         "https://www.example.com/docs/howto",
         "https://github.com/example/docs"
      ]
   },
   "api": {
      "public": {
         "get": [
            "endpoint/example",
            "orderbook/{pair}/full",
            "{pair}/ticker"
         ]
      },
      "private": {
         "post": [
            "balance"
         ]
      }
   }
}
```

```UNDER CONSTRUCTION```

#### Continuous Integration

Builds are automated by [travis-ci](https://travis-ci.org/ccxt-dev/ccxt/builds). All build steps are described in the [`.travis.yml`](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/blob/master/.travis.yml) file.

Incoming pull requests are automatically validated by the CI service. You can watch the build process online here: [travis-ci.org/ccxt-dev/ccxt/builds](https://travis-ci.org/ccxt-dev/ccxt/builds).

#### How To Build & Run Tests On Your Local Machine

The command below will build everything and generate PHP/Python versions from source JS files:

```
npm run build
```

The following command will test the built generated files (for all exchanges, symbols and languages):

```
node run-tests
```

You can restrict tests to a specific language, a particular exchange or symbol:

```
node run-tests [--php] [--js] [--python] [--python3] [exchange] [symbol]
```

For example, the first of the following lines will only test the source JS version of the library (`ccxt.js`). It does not require an `npm run build` before running it (can be useful if you need to verify quickly whether your changes break the code or not):

```shell

node run-tests --js             # test master ccxt.js, all exchanges

# other examples require the 'npm run build' to run

node run-tests --python         # test Python 2 version, all exchanges
node run-tests --php bitfinex   # test Bitfinex with PHP
node run-tests --python3 kraken # test Kraken with Python 3, requires 'npm run build'
```

```UNDER CONSTRUCTION```

Commit message:

updated contributing guidelines for transpiled files

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing To The CCXT Library

```diff
- This file is a work in progress, guidelines for contributing are being developed right now!
```

## How To Submit An Issue

If you want to submit an issue and you want your issue to be resolved quickly, here's a basic checklist for you:

- Read the [Manual](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual), and especially carefully read the following sections:
  - [Exchange Properties](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#exchange-properties)
  - [Rate Limit](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#rate-limit)
  - [DDoS Protection](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#ddos-protection-by-cloudflare--incapsula)
  - [Authentication](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#authentication)
  - [API Keys Setup](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#api-keys-setup)
- Read the [Troubleshooting](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Manual#troubleshooting) section and follow troubleshooting steps.
- Read the [API docs](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/wiki/Exchange-Markets) for your exchange.
- Search for similar issues first to avoid duplicates.
- If your issue is unique, along with a basic description of the failure, please, provide the following information:
  - your language version, ccxt library version
  - which exchange it is and which method you're trying to call
  - a full code snippet you're having difficulties with (avoid one-liners)
  - paste the full stacktrace of that snippet in verbose mode as is, unchanged

## How To Contribute Code

**PLEASE, DO NOT COMMIT THE FOLLOWING FILES IN PULL REQUESTS:**

- `/doc/*`
- `/build/*`
- `/php/*` (except for base classes)
- `/python/*` (except for base classes)

These files are generated ([explained below](https://github.com/ccxt/ccxt/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#transpiled-generated-files)) and will be overwritten upon the build. Please don't commit them to avoid bloating the repository which is already quite large.

### Pending Tasks

Below is a list of functionality we would like to have implemented in the library in the first place. Most of these tasks are already in progress, implemented for some exchanges, but not all of them:

- Unified fetchOrder
- Unified fetchOrders, fetchOpenOrders, fetchClosedOrders
- Unified fetchMyTrades, fetchOrderTrades
- Unified deposit methods
- Unified fees
- Unified deposit and withdrawal transaction history
- Improved proxy support
- WebSocket interfaces:
  - Pub: Methods for trading and private calls where supported
  - Sub: Real-time balance, orderbooks and other properties with each exchange

If you want to contribute by submitting partial implementations be sure to look up examples of how it's done inside the library (where implemented already) and copy the adopted practices.

If your proposal, suggestion or improvement does not relate to the above list of tasks before submitting it make sure it is:
1. really needed by the majority of ccxt users
2. designed to be a general-purpose solution, not hardcoded for your specific needs
3. done in a generalized way compatible with all exchanges (not exchange-specific)
4. portable (available in all supported languages)
5. robust
6. explicit in what it's doing
7. doesn't break anything

The following is a set of rules for contributing to the ccxt library codebase.

### What You Need To Have

- Node.js (version 8 or higher)
- Python 2/3
- PHP 5.3+
- [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org/installing.html)

### What You Need To Know

#### Repository Structure

The contents of the repository are structured as follows:

```shell
/                          # root directory aka npm module/package folder for Node.js
/.babelrc                  # babel config used for making the ES5 version of the library
/.eslintrc                 # linter
/.gitattributes            # contains linguist settings for language detection in repo
/.gitignore                # ignore it
/.npmignore                # ignore it npm-style
/.travis.yml               # a YAML config for travis-ci (continuous integration)
/CHANGELOG.md              # says itself
/CONTRIBUTING.md           # this file
/LICENSE.txt               # MIT
/README.md                 # master markdown for GitHub, npmjs.com, npms.io, yarn and others
/build/                    # a folder for the generated files
/ccxt.js                   # entry point for the master JS version of the ccxt library
/ccxt.php                  # entry point for the PHP version of the ccxt library
/doc/                      # Sphinx-generated rst-docs for http://ccxt.readthedocs.io/
/js/                       # the JS version of the library
/php/                      # PHP ccxt module/package folder
/php/base/                 # base code for the PHP version of the ccxt library
/python/                   # Python ccxt module/package folder for PyPI
/python/__init__.py        # entry point for the Python version of the ccxt.library
/python/async/__init__.py  # asynchronous version of the ccxt.library for Python 3.5+ asyncio
/python/base/              # base code for the Python version of the ccxt library
/python/MANIFEST.in        # a PyPI-package file listing extra package files (license, configs, etc...)
/python/README.rst         # generated reStructuredText for PyPI
/python/setup.cfg          # wheels config file for the Python package
/python/setup.py           # pip/setuptools script (build/install) for ccxt in Python
/python/tox.ini            # tox config for Python
/countries.js              # a list of ISO 2-letter country codes in JS for testing, not very important
/examples/                 # self-explaining
/examples/js               # ...
/examples/php              # ...
/examples/py               # ...
/export-exchanges.js       # used to create tables of exchanges in the docs during the build
/package.json              # npm package file, also used in setup.py for version single-sourcing
/run-tests.js              # a front-end to run invididual tests of all exchanges in all languages (JS/PHP/Python)
/transpile.js              # the transpilation script
/update-badges.js          # a JS script to update badges in the README and in docs
/vss.js                    # reads single-sourced version from package.json and writes it everywhere
/wiki/                     # the source of all docs (edits go here)
```

#### Multilanguage Support

The ccxt library is available in three different languages (more to come). We encourage developers to design *portable* code, so that a single-language user can read code in other languages and understand it easily. This helps the adoption of the library. The main goal is to provide a generalized, unified, consistent and robust interface to as many existing cryptocurrency exchanges as possible.

At first, all language-specific versions were developed in parallel, but separately from each other. But when it became too hard to maintain and keep the code consistent among all supported languages we decided to switch to what we call a *source/generated* process. There is now a single source version in one language, that is JavaScript. Other language-specific versions are syntactically derived (transpiled, generated) from the source version. But it doesn't mean that you have to be a JS coder to contribute. The portability principle allows Python and PHP devs to effectively participate in developing the source version as well.

The module entry points are:
- `./python/__init__.py` for the Python pip package
- `./python/async/__init__.py` for the Python 3.5+ ccxt.async subpackage
- `./ccxt.js` for the Node.js npm package
- `./build/ccxt.browser.js` for the browser bundle
- `./ccxt.php` for PHP

Generated versions and docs are transpiled from the source `ccxt.js` file and files in `./js/` by the `npm run build` command.

##### Transpiled (generated) files

- All derived exchange classes are transpiled from source JS files. The source files are language-agnostic, easily mapped line-to-line to any other language and written in a cross-language-compatible way. Any coder can read it (by design).
- All base classes are **not** transpiled, those are language-specific.

###### JavaScript

The `ccxt.browser.js` is generated with Babel from source.

###### Python

These files containing derived exchange classes are transpiled from JS into Python:

- `js/[_a-z].js` → `python/ccxt/async/[_a-z].py`
- `python/ccxt/async[_a-z].py` → `python/ccxt/[_a-z].py` (Python 3 asyncio → Python 2 sync transpilation stage)
- `python/test/test_async.py` → `python/test/test.py` (sync test in generated from async test)

These Python base classes and files are not transpiled:

- `python/ccxt/base/*`
- `python/ccxt/async/base/*`

###### PHP

These files containing derived exchange classes are transpiled from JS into PHP:

- `js/[_a-z].js` → `php/[_a-z].php`

These PHP base classes and files are not transpiled:

- `php/base/*`

###### Typescript

- `js/[_a-z].js` → `ccxt.d.ts`

#### Base Class

```UNDER CONSTRUCTION```

#### Derived Exchange Classes

Below are key notes on how to keep the JS code transpileable:

- don't put empty lines inside your methods
- do not use language-specific code syntax sugar, even if you really want to
- unfold all maps and comprehensions to basic for-loops
- every opening bracket like `(` or `{` should have a space before it!
- always use Python-style indentation, it is preserved as is for all languages
- indent with spaces, avoid tabs
- always put a semicolon `;` at the end of each statement, as in PHP/C-style
- all associative keys must be single-quoted strings everywhere, `array['good'], array.bad`
- all local variables should be declared with the `let` keyword
- do everything with base class methods only
- if you need another base method you will have to implement it in all three languages
- try to reduce syntax to basic one-liner expressions
- multiple lines are ok, but you should avoid deep nesting with lots of brackets
- do not use conditional statements that are too complex (heavy if-bracketing)
- do not use heavy ternary conditionals
- put an empty line between each of your methods
- avoid mixed comment styles, use double-slash `//` in JS for line comments
- avoid multi-line comments
- ...

**If you want to add (support for) another exchange or implement a new method for a particular exchange, then the best way to make it a consistent improvement is to learn from example, take a look at how same things are implemented in other exchanges and try to copy the code flow and style.**

The basic JSON-skeleton for a new exchange integration is as follows:

```JSON
{
   "id": "example",
   "name": "Example Exchange",
   "country": [ "US", "EU", "CN", "RU" ],
   "rateLimit": 1000,
   "version": "1",
   "comment": "This comment is optional",
   "urls": {
      "logo": "https://example.com/image.jpg",
      "api": "https://api.example.com/api",
      "www": "https://www.example.com",
      "doc": [
         "https://www.example.com/docs/api",
         "https://www.example.com/docs/howto",
         "https://github.com/example/docs"
      ]
   },
   "api": {
      "public": {
         "get": [
            "endpoint/example",
            "orderbook/{pair}/full",
            "{pair}/ticker"
         ]
      },
      "private": {
         "post": [
            "balance"
         ]
      }
   }
}
```

```UNDER CONSTRUCTION```

#### Continuous Integration

Builds are automated by [travis-ci](https://travis-ci.org/ccxt-dev/ccxt/builds). All build steps are described in the [`.travis.yml`](https://github.com/ccxt-dev/ccxt/blob/master/.travis.yml) file.

Incoming pull requests are automatically validated by the CI service. You can watch the build process online here: [travis-ci.org/ccxt-dev/ccxt/builds](https://travis-ci.org/ccxt-dev/ccxt/builds).

#### How To Build & Run Tests On Your Local Machine

The command below will build everything and generate PHP/Python versions from source JS files:

```
npm run build
```

The following command will test the built generated files (for all exchanges, symbols and languages):

```
node run-tests
```

You can restrict tests to a specific language, a particular exchange or symbol:

```
node run-tests [--php] [--js] [--python] [--python3] [exchange] [symbol]
```

For example, the first of the following lines will only test the source JS version of the library (`ccxt.js`). It does not require an `npm run build` before running it (can be useful if you need to verify quickly whether your changes break the code or not):

```shell

node run-tests --js             # test master ccxt.js, all exchanges

# other examples require the 'npm run build' to run

node run-tests --python         # test Python 2 version, all exchanges
node run-tests --php bitfinex   # test Bitfinex with PHP
node run-tests --python3 kraken # test Kraken with Python 3, requires 'npm run build'
```

```UNDER CONSTRUCTION```
