examples/README.md, before:

# CCXT Cryptocurrency Trading Library Examples

![preview](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1294454/31798504-ca2af4cc-b53c-11e7-946c-620d744f6d16.gif)

-------------

To run the ccxt examples from any folder type one of the following commands in console.

## JavaScript

[JavaScript Examples](https://github.com/kroitor/ccxt/tree/master/examples/js)

```shell
node path/to/example.js # substitute for actual filename here
```

<img width="842" alt="bitcoin ascii chart" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1294454/29673849-156f58c6-88f9-11e7-8955-fb3f37467234.png">


## Python

[Python Examples](https://github.com/kroitor/ccxt/tree/master/examples/py)

![basic-chart](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1294454/29979754-6d62354c-8f4f-11e7-9e0a-22e87b4a093b.jpg)

```shell
python path/to/example.py # substitute for actual filename here
```

## PHP

[PHP Examples](https://github.com/kroitor/ccxt/tree/master/examples/php)

```shell
php -f path/to/example.php # substitute for actual filename here
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## See Also

[The GDAX Trading Toolkit (GTT)](https://github.com/coinbase/gdax-tt) – a trading toolkit developed by the GDAX team that integrates the CCXT library!

[co3k-crypto-currency-note](https://github.com/co3k/co3k-crypto-currency-note/blob/master/Untitled.ipynb) – an Python example of using ccxt to fetch OHLCV candles from Kraken and charting them with matplotlib in a Jupyter Notebook, made by [co3k](https://github.com/co3k).

[bitcoin-chart-cli](https://github.com/madnight/bitcoin-chart-cli) by [madnight](https://github.com/madnight) – a command-line console util that draws Bitcoin, Ether, Litecoin and many altcoin charts right in the terminal!

![bitcoin-chart-cli](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/494806efd925c4cd56d8370c1d4e8b751812030a/68747470733a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f635474467879362e706e67)

It uses the [asciichart](https://github.com/kroitor/asciichart) JavaScript module by [kroitor](https://github.com/kroitor) for nice-looking lightweight ASCII line charting )) Both packages are available in npm!

![asciichart](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1294454/22818709/9f14e1c2-ef7f-11e6-978f-34b5b595fb63.png)

Special thx to [MitchTalmadge](https://github.com/MitchTalmadge) for porting this package to Java language! Java-people, check it out here: [ASCIIGraph](https://github.com/MitchTalmadge/ASCIIGraph).

Commit message:

Add mention of LOC-Extension

examples/README.md, after:

# CCXT Cryptocurrency Trading Library Examples

![preview](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1294454/31798504-ca2af4cc-b53c-11e7-946c-620d744f6d16.gif)

-------------

To run the ccxt examples from any folder type one of the following commands in console.

## JavaScript

[JavaScript Examples](https://github.com/kroitor/ccxt/tree/master/examples/js)

```shell
node path/to/example.js # substitute for actual filename here
```

<img width="842" alt="bitcoin ascii chart" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1294454/29673849-156f58c6-88f9-11e7-8955-fb3f37467234.png">


## Python

[Python Examples](https://github.com/kroitor/ccxt/tree/master/examples/py)

![basic-chart](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1294454/29979754-6d62354c-8f4f-11e7-9e0a-22e87b4a093b.jpg)

```shell
python path/to/example.py # substitute for actual filename here
```

## PHP

[PHP Examples](https://github.com/kroitor/ccxt/tree/master/examples/php)

```shell
php -f path/to/example.php # substitute for actual filename here
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## See Also
[LOC-Extension](https://github.com/walkjivefly/LOC-Extension) – a LibreOffice extension which embeds ccxt to provide cryptocurrency price lookup in your spreadsheets.

[The GDAX Trading Toolkit (GTT)](https://github.com/coinbase/gdax-tt) – a trading toolkit developed by the GDAX team that integrates the CCXT library!

[co3k-crypto-currency-note](https://github.com/co3k/co3k-crypto-currency-note/blob/master/Untitled.ipynb) – an Python example of using ccxt to fetch OHLCV candles from Kraken and charting them with matplotlib in a Jupyter Notebook, made by [co3k](https://github.com/co3k).

[bitcoin-chart-cli](https://github.com/madnight/bitcoin-chart-cli) by [madnight](https://github.com/madnight) – a command-line console util that draws Bitcoin, Ether, Litecoin and many altcoin charts right in the terminal!

![bitcoin-chart-cli](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/494806efd925c4cd56d8370c1d4e8b751812030a/68747470733a2f2f692e696d6775722e636f6d2f635474467879362e706e67)

It uses the [asciichart](https://github.com/kroitor/asciichart) JavaScript module by [kroitor](https://github.com/kroitor) for nice-looking lightweight ASCII line charting )) Both packages are available in npm!

![asciichart](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/1294454/22818709/9f14e1c2-ef7f-11e6-978f-34b5b595fb63.png)

Special thx to [MitchTalmadge](https://github.com/MitchTalmadge) for porting this package to Java language! Java-people, check it out here: [ASCIIGraph](https://github.com/MitchTalmadge/ASCIIGraph).
